brand-new suit same old business shirt
however you got a dress for the job you
want not the job you have got the job of
God is you to start this with a
catchphrase that came up many times in
my life in different fields of research
not all tribal peoples are indigenous
and not all indigenous people are tribal
I can remember that catchphrase of mine
of my own invention came as a kind of
revelation and philosophical topic
talking point to people working on
anthropology in elite universities like
Cambridge in Oxford to people of frankly
doing linguistics in Cambodia people
working on different kinds of tribal and
indigenous peoples in northern Laos
southwestern and Southeast Asia and then
when I returned to Canada to work on
Korean a jeep way as languages that same
catchphrase came up again and again
especially when talking about the
politics of one group of indigenous
people being posed against the others
for example the conflict between the
Cree and of the Blackfoot or the Cree
and the snake Indians or what have you
often there were contests over who was
truly indigenous in a given area
compared uh the Korean the den a it's
even better example what land was really
denied land and what was really creel
and quite apart from the question of
English and French colonialism I've got
a question that came in as they can
already know from the description to
this video question that came in
basically about white ethno-nationalism
and I understand why this person sent me
this question it's from a patreon
supporter who will remain will
definitely remain nameless except want
to embarrass the guy he's gone out on a
limb and asked me he potentially very
provocative question and let's just say
we've had a lot of discussion about
censorship here on YouTube and on
patreon lately it is likely it is it is
inevitable that this video will be
demonetized and it's likely it will be
banned just because I am answering this
question so it'll probably get the
status where it's not visible outside
the United States of America or it's not
listed and restricted status I've had
that happen ago peated Lee if you talk
about real politics in a real way
eh no matter how politically correct you
are on YouTube you do face a certain
kind of chilling effect so this will be
great listed if not blacklisted but I
appreciate his courage and asking the
question I hope he appreciates my
courage and giving you the answer
awesome hmm you don't get a sense it's
actually a pretty tight fitting suit but
because I'm holding my phone up there
what is the good balloons out alright
I'm assuming you guys gonna see more of
this suit I don't know that many changes
of costume here at a Bella ciela
Broadcasting Corporation alright maybe
we'll find some more maybe we'll find
some more menswear before we leave
Germany maybe alright um okay he asks
Heysel I'm a new patreon but I've seen
many of your videos of the fast past
four years on YouTube I wanted to ask
your thoughts on ethnic nationalism and
specifically if it fits into your
definition of inherently racist so
that's not a term I use I totally
understand the question but I do not use
the term inherently racist I don't think
there is a meaningful distinction
between something being intrinsically
and extrinsic ly racist but I know what
he means I know why he's asking he
continues quote my background is that I
am a white American but being quote
unquote white is only part of my
identity in as much as it is an
objective description of my skin color
and a genetic indication of my ancestry
or to say it another way I don't
consider the term white American to be
meaningful at all in any kind of
profound sense all the races and
ethnicities can be just as American as
me okay close quote pause do you think
that would be your perspective if you
were Mohawk Indian do you think a member
of the Mohawk tribe right now probably
living in Montreal
most of them some of them still live on
the reservation we just looked up the
number about 24,000 of them in Canada do
you think the Mohawks would say what you
just said that anyone can be just as
Canadian as them or anyone could be just
as American as them how about the Ojibwe
how about the Navajo do you see how your
question is in a not too subtle way
already missing a big fundamental point
you feel that as a white American that
Chinese people can be just as American
as you a really oh yeah
this ain't New England this is never
going to be New England where you're
living right it's never gonna be new
Europe it's always gonna be old genocide
so I think it's a very fundamental
assumption here you're missing all right
but hey thanks for your sure we're not
done we're not done with the Q&A session
yet he continues this is the beginning
and not the end of our our discourse on
this matter okay
however so quote however in taking your
advice and using sympathy as a
philosophical tool I wonder to what
extent physical appearance does have a
real meaning in terms of what it means
to be part of a particular nationality
perhaps you have some insights you can
share from your travel since my personal
experience has been limited compared to
yours like I've traveled so much in Asia
I presume well let's travel a lot you're
up to at this point um a couple
questions I want to ask one quote would
you or I ever be considered Chinese
Japanese Kenyan etc by the native
citizens if we were to live in and
become citizens of their country what
about our theoretical children with a
Chinese Japanese or Kanyon wife
okay so close quote wait so this is a
meaningful question and I'm gonna give a
relatively short answer I'm not gonna
monologue for an hour about the
differences between Chinese and Japanese
culture what you you'll be an
interesting video to a smaller reveal
that is it's a real question you talk
about and even within China you can talk
about how Hong Kong is different from
Yunnan you could talk about different
regions how what's like to assimilate
into the Dongbei and what it's like to
be on a border area with India and what
have you you know so I mean there's a
lot to say just about China and Japan um
but the problem here is the asymmetry
the indigenous people of China are
Chinese now they're not only Chinese
there were other indigenous ethnic
minority groups the vast majority of the
indigenous people of China or Han
Chinese now the indigenous people of
Germany or German there are some other
groups in Germany there's also called
the sorbs
the sorbs or an indigenous I think we're
already in Germany they don't come from
somewhere else they're just always been
in Germany they're ours but the vast
majority of the indigenous P
of Germany are Germans we can continue
Switzerland is multilingual and
multi-ethnic but you can break down
province by province in Switzerland who
is indigenous so you see why I opened
with this light motif not all indigenous
people are tribal not all tribal people
are indigenous it um how about where
you're from how about the United States
of America whose indigenous there how
about your state how about your city
what what language do they speak what
religion did a half what was there what
was their style of dress what was their
system of government what was their
political history before you took it all
away from them I'm sorry it's not the
same I understand why I asked the
question and it's a fascinating question
if I could just answer the question of
what is it like to be an immigrants in
China or Japan or several other examples
that either know directly or some stand
directly through friends or through
research and whatever sure it's
fascinating but this is never going to
be the same for continents like North
America and Australia where the the
scenario we're talking about is all
built on a bedrock of genocide and not
even cultural genocide AB the solut
genocide I'll come back to that
distinction that there's cultural
genocide and there's just outright
genocide that these are two different
things
when I lived in Laos I learned to speak
the language and it was not my top
priority this is an answer your question
directly it's not a digression when I
was in Laos had many other priorities
including learning an ancient language
called Palli so learning Lao was not the
main thing I was working on but I did I
did put some time and effort into
learning Lao and toward the end of my
time there when the government had
already threatened to kill me and
excelled me from the country putting an
abrupt end to my humanitarian work and
they really the threat to kill me went
on and on they were there were details
of the threats to murder me you know my
parents would never find my body it
would be disposed of but there's such
and such conditions and so on and so
forth and my co-workers were
interrogated by the Communist Party and
had to make confessions
for their failure to report me as the
thought-criminal of the Communist Party
this kind of thing so it was a big event
bringing abrupt end to my research
humanitarian work and language study in
Laos and at that late stage I had the
the touching and unexpected experience
of lotion people referring to me in
allow as lotion and one old woman said
of me
she was sings reassuringly to a
middle-aged lotion man she said don't
worry he's a white Lau like he's white
but he's one of us he's white but he's
lotion which stunned me I'd never
thought of that possibility before that
I would be accepted as lotion I'm also
I'm big I'm six foot three six or three
in the morning six foot two and a half
he thought this time of day now okay oh
look yeah that was stunning to me and
I'd never thought of it lotion culture
is quite accepting outsiders and the
flip side of that was what had happened
to me several times before that were
people attacking me and denouncing me
for being lotion with hatred Thai people
Thai people hating me for being they
didn't use the term of white loud I
think maybe one of them did I think one
of them said I was a white level but but
they mostly just attacking us for being
lotion and it's real obvious that I'm
that I'm in no sense ethnically lotion
so there are some ethnic groups in Asia
that are still recruiting put it that
way there were some it's not even ethnic
groups there are some nationalities
that's really the term to use your
lotion is really a nationality and not
just an ethnic group not going to get
into it and there are some that consider
themselves closed to outsiders and there
are some that are halfway in between and
you know but I remember I got a lot of
angels with a guy in Mongolia and his
experience and Mongolian culture guests
seemed to be it seemed to be pretty open
to accepting him if he converted to an
accepted Mongolian buddhism and if he
drank Mongolian liquor with them and so
few other things like this then they
were pretty open to him being kind of
taken on board but Japanese culture is
famous the other way that it does
you know you can never be Japanese
enough if you weren't a hundred percent
from there even if you are ethnically
Japanese but you were born in Brazil
that's a there's a huge body of
scholarly literature on that ethnically
Japanese people who migrated to Brazil
and migrated back again and they're
never accepted they're always treated as
foreigners there are many scenarios like
this so different answers during
different scenarios
number two quote if theoretically half
of the citizens of China Japan or Kenya
any of these countries if half the
citizens of China let's say were white
Middle Eastern or Mexican ie they were
some other nationality
woody resistance to that from the native
citizens be morally right or wrong in
your opinion it's happening right now
within China
Google sins yung Google Tibet Google any
of the instances within China of the Han
Chinese systematically eradicating the
indigenous people and population and
step one is by moving in Han Chinese to
become the majority so the the very
intentional erasure of Tibetan culture
the very intentional erasure of cynjohn
cultures is ongoing and it's it's a form
of relatively slow motion and genteel
cultural genocide not outright genocide
again in issue we have to come back to
you again and again so what what do you
mean resistance right I mean this opens
up all kinds of questions but this is
not hypothetical this is actual as soon
as you get into you know a little kind
of deeper level of knowledge of any of
these places I would absolutely assume
certainly within within Africa within
Kenya there are some really really
shocking ethnic conflicts within Kenya I
know this much about it so and so forth
however look what do you mean by
resistance every country in the world
simply dictates how many immigrants
they're in accept and how many they're
gonna reject it's called immigration
policy
unfortunately in 2018 we live in a
period of time when everything the
left-wing says about immigration policy
is [ __ ] everything the right-wing
says about immigration policy is
[ __ ] and everything that is said by
the moderates at every gradation in the
middle
is dishonest and misleading [ __ ]
from my perspective immigration policy
whether we're talking about refugees
illegal immigration or legal licit
mainstream immigration did you're a
immigration we could say um all of it
it's in a black box where nobody is
really allowed to discuss what the facts
are or what the options are or what
we're gonna do moving forward and
although in many ways it's obvious I'm
probably more further to the left than
Bernie Sanders many people consider me
right-wing many people consider me
conservative just because of my position
on immigration and I guess you could say
I am an immigration skeptic for lack of
a better term so everybody's lying about
no one wants to do it deal with it and
you know I mean look Japan it's not
resistance it's no question of resistant
policy it's an overt policy the
government decides there's a number and
nobody wants to have it they draw a
number on a piece of paper and say this
is how many immigrants were gonna accept
this is how many refugees weren't accept
this is how many migrant workers on a
two-year visa we ran except there were
targets established for all of them and
yeah most times there's a little bit of
flexibility where they'll kind of
respond to the automotive industry
saying they need some more workers or
something there's some flexibility to
the system but sure this is all
legislated it's all Fiat what can I tell
you
so most cases you're talking about
resistance is irrelevant
where is it not irrelevant to bed where
is it not irrelevant the Khmer Krom
southern Vietnam the the forcible
eradication of Cambodian people language
culture literature music religion in
southern Vietnam it's not even legal
when I was last there and of all of this
it was not even legal to own an audio CD
with music in the Cambodian language in
the Khmer Krom in southern Vietnam that
a really active program of eradication
and rewriting history and at least
cultural genocide in the the Khmer Krom
and a area that historically had been
part of Cambodian for had Carter get
buddy 4,000
of years but that the Vietnamese managed
to annex an X is the word not conquer
and that they were trying to Vietnam is
huge huge issues so those issues really
exist but they're not in the framework
of this question your question number
two we now go on to question number
three question three is it possible to
have some nations for example the United
States Canada etc where race and
ethnicity matters little or not at all
while also having other countries like
Japan where it matters much more and
both modes are morally acceptable how
would you feel if you were born and
raised in India where the whole history
of your culture the whole history of
your continent had to do with being
conquered by foreign powers and
resisting them not to give a complete
list but most notably including conquest
by the Muslims from the north and
conquest from the British Empire from
the ocean by the South that's in all of
your education and all of your sense of
identity is that what it means to be
Indian what it especially to be a Hindu
in India is to resist this foreign
encroachment it's a very different form
of nationalism isn't it right it's a
very different perspective in the world
um when India achieved independence from
the British Empire one of the biggest
and most bitterly fought over debates
was of what would happen to the
anglo-indians to the ethnically white
population
I should have googled this how many
millions of them that there were I
forget there was a really really large
population of white people in India some
of them been there for a hundred years
150 years whatever they you know their
families for a couple generations as
part of the British Empire would they
would they all just be forced to leave
or what would all their property be
seized would they be kicked out
overnight would it be a holocaust type
situation or what how was this risky
kind of proceed because one way or
another India did not want to be the
Dominion of all white
Elite of overlords who had taken up
their status in society through through
conquest conquest and colonialism and
corporate rule by the British East India
Company different perspective isn't it
huh so is it possible to have some
nations where race and ethnicity matters
little or not at all walk down the
streets in New York City who are the
named after what what is New York named
after where is Old York what language
was spoken in New York City the problem
is you're asking this from the
perspective of a country where the
process of genocide and colonialism is
so far advanced that it's become
invisible to you whereas in a country
like India it advanced up to a certain
point and then the tide of history was
reversed